# CS-465-Full-Stack
CS-465 MEAN Full-Stack Project
Various types of architectures were used throughout the development of this web application. At first, multiple HTML pages were created and stored in the server, and Express.js was used to serve them to the client whenever they visited a specific URL. Then, we used Angular to create a Single Page Application (SPA). In SPAs, only one HTML file is returned to the user, which contains JavaScript code that renders and updates the page on the client-side. The main advantage of SPAs is that it provides a seamless user experience. Since the user does not have to wait for the HTML file to be retrieved from the server, transitions are much faster than in multiple-page applications. Furthermore, MongoDB was used for the database. The advantage of using a NoSQL database is that it allows using an agile development process while redefining data models and reshape data of any structure iteratively.
JSON (an acronym for JavaScript Object Notation) is a file and data format consisting of attribute-value pairs. Even though it was derived from JavaScript, it is language-independent and can be used by numerous modern programming languages. In this application, JSON is the data format used in the communication between front-end and back-end. For instance, the trip card component fetches data from the database, which is sent as JSON, to populate the information in the front-end. This component it also reusable, since a dynamic ID is used to query the database. This is a significant benefit, because it mitigates redundancy and only one component is needed to render as many cards as needed.
The main ways to test SPAs and their communication with the back-end is through API platforms and manual testing. First, we can test that the back-end logic is working correctly by using tools like Postman, which allows us to make HTTP requests, such as GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE, without the need of a front-end. Furthermore, we can run both the back- and front-end locally to test if the front-end is fetching the correct data and functionalities, such as delete and update, are being communicated successfully to the database. In this case, writing log messages throughout the code is important to identify possible issues. There are numerous errors that could arise from these tests; therefore, it is important to be consistent and efficient when handling HTTP request errors. Numerous status codes, like 400 (Bad Request) and 404 (Not Found), can be used to identify problems with each situation.
This course has helped me solidify my knowledge of REST APIs and SPAs. I had no previous experience with Angular, and I was excited to learn how powerful its CLI is. It improves efficiency as it allows developers to easily create components and services. Since the MEAN stack is one of the most popular frameworks for developing web applications, I am confident that the knowledge learned in this course will be valuable in reaching my professional goals.
